[Back to Review](../SR-WorkingReview-25072017-jmb.md)

# Voting Technology
Discussion on voting technologies and the process of voting in general has started to appear in major debate. While we won't discuss the actual algorithms voting technologies utilize, we deem it important to at least mention how transparency technologies have affected the discussion and potential future.

With modern development and research, e-governance, specifically e-voting practices have become a real issue for many to consider. However voting online in a simple system introduces many issues, duplicate votes, tallying software agreed upon by all parties, and one of the largest issues: confirmation of vote. In the most recent developments, voting systems are being tested that utilize block-chain. There is so much to this technology for us to go over and explore the implications of in other transparency technologies, but in short, you can think of the block-chain as a system that tracks all interactions between parties through currency. Currency can have real value or no value what-so-ever but regardless, it will track all objects in the system and anyone else can then view the transaction log as well. This allows for voting systems were every member has a singular currency or token to vote with and then spend. However you don't want a purely transparent voting system, what this really creates as a voting system is an open record of voting and models have been proposed in which, while your encrypted vote is available to be seen by everyone and calculated, but you can decrypt your vote to ensure that it was tallied properly.

Not only does this solve one of the largest issues in voting technologies, confirmation, this technology also allows individuals to vote from anywhere as long as they have internet access and have registered properly. This allows to expand accountability repercussions, with such a technology in place, fast, reliable, and trusted snap-elections can occur after a questionable decision, leak, or event occurs.

And this most recent point is why voting technology, and specifically this most recent block-chain variant goes hand-in-hand with transparency and accountability technologies. If the Obama Administration truly was The Transparency President, an administration which campaigning on accountability through transparency technology, wouldn't it only make sense to experiment with this technology at least on a small scale?

Transparency technologies are most commonly built on the idea of accountability. President Obama aimed to build a transparent and accountable government which targeted government expenses. Recovery.gov was to be a bastion of government expense tracking and accountability. The idea being that any individual could view how their taxes were being spent. Regardless the system itself ultimately wasn't the same system that he claimed it would be. Accountability was the central and focusing topic for the creation.

With voting technologies like that of block-chain voting, citizens who have access to this true transparent data and information could truly hold their representatives accountable.

**Voting Technology? Should we cut it? Personally, I think it has a lot to do with transparency, as it is becoming a larger talking point in recent times, and with transparency and accountability as political talking points, I feel voting technology is a decent topic to discuss even briefly in the space of transparency technologies.**
